So let's make sure we can also edit images and to not just view them one time or upload them one time. For
that,
we of course need to work on the post create component. There
we right now have nothing in place to edit existing images.
Now the first thing I want to do there is when we create a new form for the image, we always have null
as a starting value right now,
now when we add an image, I actually want to also use my image path.
So when we set a value here, I'll set a value for image and that value will be this post image path. Now
that's a string but we can still assign this here as a value for this input,
we're not limited to adding a file here.
Now with that, we're already prepared to handle that in the form
and if I now reload this, maybe save that file before I do so, now it works without errors.
Now if we submit this, we of course execute a method in our posts service, we execute update post.
Now there of course, we have to differ between two cases,
do we have a string image or not?
Because if we got a string image, well then I just want to send a JSON request, if we got an object,
so if we got a file, well then I of course want to upload this
as form data. It'll be a put request nonetheless
but the payload simply differs.
So here we're reconstructing a new post
and first of all, I'm expecting my image here and this will actually be of type any or we can be more
precise,
it will be a file or with the pipe operator, a string,
so it can be either.
Now let's remove the posts here and let's now check what it is.
Now first of all, let's go back to post create component and maybe pass it, here when we do save the post,
let's pass this form value and then image,
so let's pass this extra value to update post
but now back in the post service, here I want to check what we have.
So if the typeof, it's a built-in function, if the typeof image is equal to object, we can check for
file here
but a file will be an object, a string will not.
So if that is equal to object, then we want to create a form data object,
else I know that I have a string here as an image and therefore, I want to send normal JSON data.
So if we have an object, I'll create my new post data here with a new form data object and as we did
it for, well posting that for the first time, we'll then call append here and append the title which
will be the title we get as an argument here,
then of course do the same for the content and then add our file.
So here, I then append my image which is the image I'm getting here and where the title will be the filename,
so this is the relevant thing if we're uploading a new post.
Else here, I want to create new post data which is of type post which is simply a Javascript object where
I will have an ID which is the ID I got here, where I have my title, where I have my content and where
I have my image path which is the image I'm getting, which in this case would be a string.
So either way,
post data is what I want to send,
so let's send it here. Now
Typescript doesn't understand that
post data will always exist,
so let's initialize it here as a variable and not as constants here in the else block,
like that. Post data therefore will be of type post or it will be a form data object
and now we can safely send posts data here. Now down there,
we simply refer to the ID we got as an argument anyways
and the post which we want to store as an updated post is a post I have to create here,
so that will then be a post, type post which simply is an object constructed as we are constructing
it here.
One important difference though, we of course get back the image path from the server because if we uploaded
a new image, that will have changed.
So I will actually expect to get back a response where I somehow can access my image,
for now let's say image path will probably have to revisit this, as you can see or as you can tell by
the error here.
So we got the first steps in place,
we're not done yet but we should be able to send data to this endpoint,
of course some work needs to be done on that endpoint too.
So let's move over back to the server and let's work on that
put endpoint.
Now I also want to use multer there, so
I can just copy the logic from the post endpoint and add it here too to extract files there too,
here we are.
So now I'm also extracting an image there before I run my function
and now in my function, I of course want to store my my uploaded file but that depends on whether we're
getting a new file or if I'm just getting a string.
Now that's relatively easy to do, let's simply output console log request file, to see what we get in
the case where we do replace the file and where we don't. Now for this, we need to fix our front-end
code which right now won't work,
I'll simply comment out the line which is throwing the error, that doesn't work either,
so I'll simply set this to an empty path here.
That's all right,
we'll fix this later.
So let's now go back where we added this and let's hit save post.
Now I've failed to really submit this because this check in the post create component actually detects
that of course the image path we assigned is not a valid file,
right,
it's a string, it's not a file, it's not making it through our mime-type check.
Well to handle that case, I can go to my mime-type.validator and at the very beginning, I'll add a check where
I see if control value, if the type of that is equal to string. If it is, then that's ok but then I immediately
want to return an observable.
So I'll add a new import from rxjs
of, of is a quick and easy way of adding or creating an observable which will emit data immediately.
Here I will simply return of, returnable therefore make sure that the other code doesn't run, of null.
So this will now simply return
that this is
valid. With this,
if I go back and I hit save, still doesn't work.
The reason for that is that
when I initialize the post on this page in ngOnInit, I'm actually reaching out to getPost in my
service, right and in getPost
if we take a closer look, I'm sending a get request to this
URL here for a given post
but I'm not getting the image path here,
I'm not expecting it either.
So instead I should manipulate this and expect the image path here to be of type string, also separated by colons
not by semi-colons
and I need to work on the back-end of course, on my get request for that single post here because it
will actually contain my image path I'm fetching from the database.
So the image path will be part of the response but I then return it here in the post service and I'm
not handling it here in a post create component. There where I get the post, image path, I set it to null.
Well now I should set it to image path now that I edited the type and the post service.
So now if this loads, I can submit this.
Now let's go to our server and there, we see undefined is logged and that makes sense because I wanted
to see what gets logged if we try to put data and we get no file and we have no file here because what
we submit is the default image path which is a string.
So that's great,
that means that request file is undefined
if we're submitting a string. So I can simply check if requests file, if it's there and if it's there,
I know a new file was uploaded. Then we can use the logic from the post route here, where we construct
a URL and where we then store this URL together with the new file name in the image path.
So I get my URL here,
I'll add my image path variable here and I'll then set image path here equal to URL plus and now really
just the logic we have up here,
URL plus images plus the filename,
this happens if we got a file. Otherwise and that will be my default value for image path,
I try to get it from the body, image path. It should be part of the body then
because in my posts service where I put my data, so where I send that put request, I do add post data
which in a case that we're not uploading a file,
so in this case, which will have an image path property which will be the image which will be the string.
So now it should really save that to the database as an image.
Now if I edit this again here, let's try that,
let's save this
and we got no error here.
We can also confirm that this is all working correctly by going back to the server and before updating,
let me console log my post here.
By the way of course, I should use image path too,
so here I will actually set image path equal to image path.
That image path now is either the path
we already had or the path of the newly uploaded image.
So now again, let's save that, restart, let's edit this,
hit save posts here
and if we go back, we see that there in the post which gets logged, we have that old image link.
Now let's try uploading a new one for that image, so I'll choose pick image here, pick the same image
actually but still we've replaced the path with a file,
so this will cause a new upload. Let's hit save and something seems to fail on the back-end here.
We can see here, we can tell by the output that actually a new image was stored because that name is
different because the timestamp here is different
but we then still got an error,
well that we tried to edit the ID.
Well we did fix that before,
let's quickly have a look,
what broke it? Well yes, if you upload a new file here, we're not passing an ID and therefore it would
generate a new one,
so what we have to do is we have to append posts data,
we have to append that ID of course, otherwise we get no ID on the server,
we tried to generate a new one, we tried to save that and it breaks.
So with that changed, let's try this again, save this,
now this looks much better
and now we inspect this, we got the updated file there too.
Now you can see that we keep on adding files here,
this is something I actually will not care about here because for once, not that untypical to keep files
even if users upload new ones.
You might want to use them for machine learning, anything like that.
If you want to clean them up, you would typically not do that when the user uploads a new file because
that would require unnecessary processing power during the request,
instead you would probably use some worker process which runs every night, every x hours which basically
checks which files are not mentioned in your database anymore
and it would then delete the files.
Now that is definitely beyond the scope of this course,
so I will leave it like this
and again keep in mind, this is not just some reason I'm coming up with,
you do often keep such files around.
So we'll do the same here in this course.